So what is flexbox actually?
Well as I said, flexbox allows us to change the way our elements are displayed and using flexbox is
actually quite simple because to use flexbox, we simply have to add a specific property to our element,
to which element? We'll dive into that in a few seconds.
This property we need is the display property, we talked about that property throughout the course already,
it's that display block inline or inline block thing
where we can change the behavior of our elements and if we now use the display property in connection
with this value right here, the flex value,
then we create the following: we create a flex container and that's the first important thing we
have to understand. If we apply display flex to an element, this element will be turned into a so-called
flex container.
Now as the name indicates, a container has to contain things and that's exactly what happens right
here because inside our flex container, we should have other nested elements and these elements are the
so-called children and these children are also named flex items.
So that's the first thing we have to keep in mind,
we have an element,
normally a parent element with the display flex declaration, this parent will become the so-called flex
container after we applied this declaration and all elements inside this container are children of
the parent of course
and at the same time, flex items.
Now that's the first step,
the second step is that once we turned our elements into such a flexbox construct as I would call it,
we can apply different properties to both, our parent, our flex container and our children, our flex items.
For the parent,
we can apply the flex flow property, the justify content property, the align content property and the align
items property, we'll of course dive into all these properties throughout this module.
The same thing is true for our flex items, for these, we can also apply properties. The properties right
here we have are order, flex and align self,
we'll also dive into these throughout the course.
The problem now is that this is a very abstract construct now for you
and at the moment, it's probably not clear how we can use the combination of this flex container and
these flex items and these properties to change the way our elements are displayed.
Therefore, we will forget about the flex items for the first part of this module and really focus onto
the actual flex container and the corresponding properties because with that, you will quickly understand
the core concept of flexbox
and then we will be able to dive deeper into the flex items. And how can we dive into these concepts?
Well, we will of course also apply flexbox to our project
but actually, I think that understanding all these things in a theoretical and leaner project is the
better approach.
Therefore, let's have a look at our theory project and do our first steps with flexbox in there in the
next lecture.